only the other week on this program
four-by-fours were getting a bad press
for churning up the countryside well
here's something that might make you
change your mind
a group of 4x4 drivers in Paris have
volunteered to help the emergency
services in situations where off-road
vehicles are required our community
reporter Alison Quinn has been along to
one of their training sessions this
group of vehicles behind me are actually
heading off into the Hrodna forest for a
very serious exercise they're getting
themselves and their vehicles ready for
a possible emergency situation they are
the 4x4 Powis response group and during
the winter months they could be heading
to your rescue in the snow or in severe
flooding but they won't be spending a
great deal of time in their vehicles
today's event is about ensuring they are
equipped with some key outdoor survival
skills the day begins with how to get
their vehicle out of a rut now what I'd
like to start with is everybody favorite
there's a high lift Chuck okay and the
person behind the coordination of this
day and the group is off-road driver
Marc maggots I think the vision that we
have is providing a robust team of
volunteers that can be mobilized at very
short notice that are very competent and
reliable and can deliver whatever
service is required of them
I'm your survival instructor for the
weekend and what we're going to do now
is just run through some basic fire
lighting skills so if you don't like to
just gather in a bit closer we're also
providing some training for survival
techniques because one of the potential
risks that our guys face is that if they
are out on a on a call of whatever
reason they get a mechanical failure
they may be stuck with their vehicle in
inclement weather overnight and need to
ensure that they can survive through the
night in the best comfort they work
closely with all emergency services and
could be sent to parts others just
cannot reach inspector Stewart's Ackley
from Llandrindod Wells Police Station
says this is where they'll really make a
difference we're very keen to work in
partnership with the 4x4 Response Group
because it provides us a useful resource
to respond
to the isolated rural areas that we have
and we get a frequent get calls for
missing walkers and in cases of flooding
or adverse weather conditions such as
snow it provides us with a response that
we previously didn't have and forty-one
volunteers graduated with full marks
ready willing and able to respond to
extreme weather conditions in Wales this
winter